FONTLOG

Munson font family
====================

	by Paul J. Miller

Status
------

Munson is a free font, free in the sense of free of restrictions and DRM but also free in the sense of cost.

Under the terms of the license you may use Munson in any kind of publication, print or electronic, without fees or restrictions.  You may modify the font for your own use. You may distribute your modified version in accordance with the terms of the SIL license.

You may use Munson for any purpose including commercial usage.

Munson is licensed under the SIL Open Font License: for the full text, go to http://scripts.sil.org/OFL.

You can release any publications you produce under any license terms you want.  You may use it for your latest book and sell the book either on paper or in electronic form without any restrictions or requirements.

The only thing you may NOT do is sell the font on its own as a stand alone font.

If you are producing an electronic document for someone else and they don't have Munson installed on their system the document won't be rendered correctly especially if you have used any of the characters from the Private Use Area.  However you are free to give them a copy of Munson so they can install it on their system.  If you are going to do this it would be better to give them the .ZIP file you downloaded, but this is not a requirement because the .OTF files contain the license information within the relevant fields of the font file itself.

Munson may be embedded in a .PDF file without any restrictions.


Description
-----------

I had the need for an old fashioned typeface for a graphic design project, something remeniscent of the Victorian printing.  I decided on a Clarendon style typeface.  When you start looking for a free Clarendon typeface you will find many which are exceedingly good but expensive (not free).  Then you will find a small number which are free but not very good.  Many of them don't have an italic form or they have italics which are just slanted versions of the upright face.

I missed out on the graphic design project but if it comes around again I will be ready.

So an old fashioned typeface, Clarendon is an iconic typeface of that era, it has been used in signage and advertising many many times.

There was a typeface by a company called Stephenson Blake in Sheffield.  This typeface was made around 1815 and was called Coronet.  This is nothing to do with the modern Coronet typeface, it was a bracketed slab serif face with ball terminals where appropriate. I have obtained scanned documents and typeface samples from that era which depict the Coronet typeface and some scanned advertisments from America from the 1950's which are in a typeface I believe to be Coronet. I have attempted to re-create the look and style of the Coronet typeface in a modern font.

But some of the characters in the Coronet typeface were not to my liking so I have designed Munson according to my own aesthetic preferences.  There is also much of Clarendon in Munson.  The Clarendon typeface was first made by Robert Besley in London in 1845 and is particularly well known.  Munson is an amalgamation of all these influences, a sort of hybrid between the old Coronet and Clarendon with some of my own influence thrown in for good measure.

The italic had to be distinctive and so I chose images of the fancy italic characters in equations from various Mathematics text books.  It started with the 'i', 'x' and 'y' characters but spread into the rest of the characters.  The leading and trailing tails of the italics are exagerrated, as indeed are the serifs of the upright font.  I cheated here, rather than make an italic lower case set from scratch I just copied someone else's (from a free open source font) and then butchered them horribly.  I dislike starting with a blank canvas.  This is not new or original, it is fashioned after Craw Modern italic, a typeface be Freeman Craw around 1960 and also Monotype Modern Italic.  It just looked right, rather than having the italics as an oblique version of the upright, this is a cop out but it is what most of the free Clarendons do if they bother with italics at all.  I do not posess a copy of Craw Modern but there are scanned images on the web and much of the design was a hand and eye copy of scanned images.

The construction of Munson has been achieved at a very fast pace due to starting out with a slab serif font which I designed three and a half years ago using Font Forge.  That font was not very good but provided a starting point for further work.  Also many of the incidental characters were copied from 'Kelvinch' (one of my previous fonts) and modified if necessary.

Munson comes in Regular, Italic, Bold and Bold Italic faces.

_________________________________________________
This font was made in Sheffield, South Yorkshire!
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯


ChangeLog
---------
(This should list both major and minor changes, most recent first.)


15th January 2019 to 20th April 2019

Added a Cyrillic character set to Munson.

Also made the dotted and dotless i characters work correctly with Turkish.

Removed the Cherokee Syllabary from Munson.  This was a difficult decision.  When working with glyphs which one is not familiar with it is easy to make a change which to the designer seems trivial but to a native speaker of that language would be very bad.  Mid 2018 I e-mailed the Cherokee Nation on the e-mail address on their website for advice as to whether the designs I had come up with were correct.  They did not answer the e-mail.
Given no feedback I have no idea if the designs were correct or culturally acceptable so they have been removed from the font.

3rd May 2018

Added more open type features, Capital Spacing, more advanced fractions.

Removed Greek final sigma open type feature since the 'Fina' open type feature only works with Arabic scripts and Greek people have keyboards with both versions of sigma and they know which to type.

6th February 2018

Finished adding the Cherokee Syllabary to Munson

15th September 2017

Started adding the Cherokee Syllabary to Munson

1st June 2017

Re designed the mu character in the italic and bold-italic fonts because it was the last remaining character which was an oblique version of the upright when it should have been italic.

18th April 2017

Finished adding Greek characters

11th April 2017

Started adding Greek characters.

24th March 2017

More tidying up of the Latin Extended-B character set in Roman, Italic, Bold and Bold-Italic.

22nd March 2017

More tidying up of the Latin Extended-B character set in Roman, Italic, Bold and Bold-Italic.

21st March 2017

More tidying up of the Latin Extended-A character set in Roman, Italic, Bold and Bold-Italic.

20th March 2017

More tidying up of the Latin Extended-A character set in Roman, Italic, Bold and Bold-Italic.

19th March 2017

The numbers have had some ball terminals added but apart from that they are still straight out of Kelvinch.  I spent all day editing the 2 and the 7 to look more Victorian block printing.  Then propogated the change to italic then bold and then bold-italic.  Also re-designed the 1 character.

Sterling character in Coronet looked awful so I looked at a rendition of Sterling in Clarendon and tried to copy that character.  I copied the character by hand and eye because the scanned image was too blurry at that magnification to permit an import of the bitmap image.  The result is not bad.

Re-designed the italic z which looked awful.

18th March 2017

Corrected the positions of the diacritic marks in the Latin-1 Supplement in Roman, Italic, Bold and Bold-Italic.

17th March 2017

Continued to tidy up the mess which is the bulk of the bold-italic font.

Re-designed the Amphersand character, copied to italic and made oblique.  Copied to Bold and made bold.  Copied Bold Amphersand to Bold-Italic and made oblique.

16th March 2017

Continued to tidy up the mess which is the bulk of the italic and bold font.

Added many more glyphs by using 'Complete compsites', these are composite glyphs which are combinations of existing glyphs.

Continued to tidy up the mess which is the bulk of the upright font.

15th March 2017

Spent all day tidying up some of the mess generated by my earlier attempts to get things dont too quickly.  The a-z, A-Z and the numbers are now reasonably presentable but I will need to go through them at some point to tidy up and check for mistakes.

14th March 2017

Spent all day filleting slab serifs.  This would have been a lot easier in Font Creator 10 but for some reason the toggle point on/off curve command has been removed.

13th March 2017

I have taken three weeks off work.  This was due to the fact that I have lots of leave left and cannot carry it over to next year (April 1st) but it does give me a good opportunity to get things moving with the new font.

Spent all day butchering the italic and bold-italic characters to make them into something more Math Textbook-ish, with exagerated tails and ball terminals where appropriate.

The numbers are still straight out of Kelvinch.  Modified the numbers on the upright fonts to give them some balls (ball terminals that is) then copied the numbers into the italic fonts and slanted them by 12 degrees.


12th March 2017

Made two more copies of the font.

Slanted the upright font by 12 degrees to give an italic font.  Replaced the lower case italics with the lower case italics from the Acariya italic font by Bhikkhu Pesala because they were the most similar to what I wanted to achieve.

Emboldened the upright font by expanding the vertical uprights by 100 units also some of the bowls were emboldened in the same way.

Copied the italic font to a bold italic font then emboldened it in the same way as the bold font.

Filled in some of the gaps, copied more glyphs from kelvinch.

It has been a long day!


11th March 2017

I have enrolled on the Beta Test of the new version of Font Creator.  I need a throw away font to edit so that at the end of the test I do not have to buy the new version of Font Creator if I decide not to (depends on the price).

I have decided to revive one of my early project which is most similar to the font I want to produce.  It is a slab serif with unbracketed serifs. My early work was abysmal, but now I have more experience and know how to change curves to the way I want them to look.

I started with the upright font which just contained the letters and numbers and one or two other characters.

Copied many characters from 'Kelvinch' to fill in the gaps.


Acknowledgements
----------------
(Here is where contributors can be acknowledged. If you make modifications be 
sure to add your name (N), email (E), web-address (W) and description (D). 
This list is sorted by last name in alphabetical order.)

N: Paul James Miller
E: kelvinch@virginmedia.com
W: 
D: Original Designer and main contributor.
